
[ch1] We use metaphor to help us make sense of concepts, for example
argument is war leads us to all kinds of language related to battles,
stuggle and winning/losing when we talk about arguing, but what would
it look like if we had a metaphor of argument as dancing?  This
highlights that our metaphors hide aspects of our concepts and limits
our thinking about those concepts.

[ch2] We create systems of metaphor with a sort of hierarchy, time is
money, time is a limited resource, time is valuable commodity, for
example. Our conceptualisation of time is cultural.

[ch3] Through our metaphors we highlight and hide much of our
concepts. For example, when considering arguing as war we highlight
the adversarial aspects and hide the cooperative aspects. It also
causes us problems when context is required. These metaphors that turn
out to occur in almost all that we talk about are always partial,
hiding and revealing aspects of the concept.

[ch4] We use orientation, such as up and down, as a metaphor for many
things such as mood, health etc. Again this is cultural. Some
cultures, for example, see the future as behind rather than in front,
unlike western culture. Because we see good and bad as up and down,
using this metaphor with other concepts creates association. For
example, rational as up and emotional as down. Control is up provides
us a basis for man is up and rational is up. The systematicity imposes
a coherence. A system would be incoherent if "I'm feeling up" meant I
am happy, but "My spirit's rose" meant I became sadder. Generally our
coherent system is based on good is up and our system of metaphors
becomes incoherent of we say, for example "breadth of ecstasy" rather
than "heights of ecstacy".

[ch5] Coherence requires resolution of conflicting and where these
arise there is a cultural priority. For example, More is up over Good
is up.

[ch6] Ontological metaphors are often used to view a non physical
thing as an entity or substance [note - ontology of identity]. Some of
these ontological metaphors seem so natural it often doesn't occur to
us that they are metaphors. For example the mind as a machine
(operating, wheels turning, rusty) or mind as fragile (shattered,
crished) This can lead us to think of statements such as "he cracked
under pressure" as being either false or true, but the mind as a
brittle object is cultural model of the mind. Activities and states
are often viewed as containers. For example being in love.

[ch7] Many ontological metaphors asociate the concept as a person and
this can become specific as in the example of "inflation as a person"
and "inflation as an adversary". This allows us to create meaning
around concepts that echo our own motivations, actions, goals and
charactersistics.

[ch8] Metonymy is a particular type of metaphor where we use one
entity to refer to another that is related, for example "He owns a
Picasso". A special case of this where we use a part to refer to a
whole is known as synechdoche. An example would be "I've got a new set
of wheels". An example where culture influences our metaphors is
substitution of the face for the person. "She's just a pretty
face". This cultural influence is evident when we show someone a
picture of someone else - the face is the important bit. Metonymic
concepts can also be systematic like other uses of metaphor. "He owns
a Picasso" has more meaning than "He owns a painting by Picasso" as
substituting the producer for the produced imbues the concept
discussed with elements of the producers philosophy, approach, skill,
historical context and much more than the more specific "painting by
Picassso". This demonstrates how metaphor not only structures our
language but also our concepts, thoughts and attitudes. Symbolic
metonyms are critical links between everyday experience and our
cultural (and religious) metaphorical systems. It demonstrates what is
important and relevant to us in the concepts we use.

[ch9] A challenge to coherence of metaphors can be seen when we
consider time. "In the weeks ahead of us" and "In the following weeks"
look at first appearance to be contradictory. In fact they demonstrate
a richness in our metaphors. When we consider ourselves we can see us
as facing forwards towards the future [itself cultural] but the points
in future time, in relation to each now, or a particular point in time
can be a sequence of occurences that come after each other and we
experience them in some kind of order where the future 'follows' the
present. We also have time as a moving object; as we stand still, time
"passes us by". This demonstrates a multi faceted view of time as
concept, coherent in it's metaphor. [Bergsonian time?]

[ch10] Metaphors partially structure our everyday concepts and this
structure is reflected in our literal language.

[ch11] Our metaphors are partial in the normal use. There are used
parts and unused parts. For example, we talk about foundations and
structure to theories - theories as buildings - but we don't talk
about rooms, walls, doors, furniture etc. in the normal use of
metaphors. However, we do often extend this to explore a richness of
meaning within our concepts. We often extend the used parts "bricks
and mortar of the theory". We also extend into unused parts "the
theory has thousands of rooms and long winding corridors". We can also
/use novel metaphor to introduce new ways of thinking/. For example
"Classical theories are patriarchs who father many children". *Apply
the text in italics to the metaphor of homeostasis?* 

[ch11] When we use metaphors in a structured way we find that we find
that we use parts of the metaphor, but not all of them. Parts of the
metaphor remain hidden. We can use novel metaphors to explore new
meaning.

*IDEA* - mapping the metaphorical phase space.

*IDEA* - Use a metaphor, create parts, create opposites, that's not it!

*IDEA* - Explore hidden parts of metaphor to increase the metaphorical
phase space.

[ch12] Our conceptual system is grounded in experience as are our
metaphors.

[ch13] Our structural metaphors provide clear delineated to concepts
to structure another concept. These are often cultural.

[ch14] Causation is a basic human concept.

[ch16] An argument is a journey, a journey defines a path, therefore
an argument defines a path.

*IDEA* - use sylogism to explore metaphor and cross metaphor coherence
to increase the metaphorical phase space - what might phase space look
lke in relation to a metaphor.

[ch17] Cross metaphor coherence:
Journey - content, progress, directness, obviousness
Container - content, progress, basicness, strength, clarity
Building - content, progress, basicness, strength, structure

[ch18] Spacial metaphor applies to the form of a sentence:

I taught Greek to Harry
I taught Harry Greek <- stronger

Intonation - Unknown is up, Known is down. "Who did John see
yesterday?" 

[ch29] Experialentialism - Meaning is only meaning /to/ a
person. Truth depends on understanding and understanding emerges from
functioning in the world.


